---
layout: post
date: 2015-10-29
title: "Tutorial 5"
---

1.Explain the 3 cornerstones of OOP?
	 Data Abstraction, Polymorphism and Inheritence
2.What is inheritance in C++?
	
3.Compare and contrast inheritance in C++ with inheritance in JAVA.

4.What do these concepts means in relation to inheritance in C++:

(I)Overloading,

(II)Overiding

5.Compare and contrast reading and writing to files in C++ with doing the same in JAVA

6.There are 6 control modes you can use when creating a filestream object. What are
they?

7.Explain how you use the get() and getline() functions to read from a file.

8.Explain the following types of errors.

(I)Syntax errors
	An error that involves the misspelling or deletion of appropriate syntax.
(II)Logic errors
	An error that will go unnoticed by the complier but will give unexpected result.
(III)Exception errors
	an error that causes a program to abort and may therefore return the user to the operating 	system.
9.Explain when and how you would use try-catch blocks in C++?

10.How does try catch in C++ compare to the same concept in JAVA?
11.Explain all the types of exceptions that the stdexcept library describes.
			Last week Data Structures:
12. We looked at Open Addressed hash tables. Compare and contrast Open Addressed Hash tables with chained ones.
				Other courses:
13.How does what you have learnt in other courses this week relate to this course?

14.What relations can you see arising in the coming week?
				Last weeks lab:
15.How did you find the assignment?
	OK
16. Discuss with your group your different answers

_Written by Joseph_