---
layout: post
date: 2015-10-22
title: "Tutorial 4"
---

1.	Strings in c++ allow user defined operators which other languages don’t, more specifically Java. Also  c++ strings is an array of characters instead of a built in class
2.	i. Size: returns the number of characters representing that string
	ii. Clear: Creates an empty string; 0 characters
	iii. Capacity: Set string size, can allocate extra space
	iv. Empty: Tells user if the string is empty or not, returns true of false
	v. +: Used to concatenate strings together
	vi. +=: Append characters to the end of the string
	vii. ==: Used to compare if a string is equal to another string
	viii. Compare: Compares two strings by its characters
	ix. Assign: Replaces current value to a new one
	x. Swap: Swaps two string values
	xi. Find: Searches string until condition is met
	xii. find_first_of: Searches string until first character is found
	xiii. find_first_not_of: Searches string until first character that does not match is found
	xiv. find_last_of: Searches string until last character is found that matches
	xv. find_last_not_of: Searches string until finds the last character that does not match
	xvi. Insert: Used to insert more characters into the string
	xvii. Erase: Delete specific characters in string
	xviii. Replace: Replace specific characters in string
3.	Use stringstreams to read strings and input data into them, uses string buffer, used to manipulate strings
4.	A class defines an object; class contains attributes and functions. A class cannot do anything on its own. That is where objects come in. You create an object which inherits the class’s attributes and methods.  For example a class named Person is created; next create an object called Fred which inherits the class Person attributes and methods.
5.	Constructor is used to build objects, you can define an objects attributes using a constructor. Destructor is used to destroy objects, opposite of a constructor
6.	Used when you are using variables that are above your current scope, points to the current instance
7.	Java is more OOP based as you cannot run any code without declaring classes and objects whereas in c++ you can run code purely from the main() without creating objects
8.	Group understood all concepts and did not struggle to grasp any of them
9.	Harder to implement compared to other data structures  
10.	Found the concept of hash tables a bit more difficult to comprehend compared to data structures like arrays and lists
11.	All hashtables contents are accessible by using a key; vectors are different as you need to know which position the object you want exists. Both can store an array of objects
12.	Use hashtables for better data organisation and data retrieval, as stated above is is easier to find a specific object
13.	When not all the memory allocated is used
14.	Learning a new language is hard but I found the assignment to be manageable 
15.	Only problem is getting used to transitioning from Windows to Linux
16.	The use of Linux and managing data, for example working on database assignment and scripts to manage data
17.	Programming in c languages and using Linux

_Written by Michael Stevens_